>> Raw food is the best way
to have the cleanest energy.
It's like we take so much
care about what kind of fuel
we put in our car, what kind of
oil, this, that, and the other,
like our car we really
care about sometimes
more than the fuel
that we're looking
at putting in our bodies.
It's cleaner burning fuel.
>> A life food cuisine and
lifestyle is a powerful way
to heal both yourself,
the ecology of the planet,
and the consciousness
of the planet.
>> The government has a
lot to do with our beliefs.
I mean, they are pretty well
controlling what we're told.
I mean, the American Dairy
Association, the American Meat
Packers Association.
I mean, they pretty
well tell you
that you have to have
animal products to survive.
And this just is not the truth.
>> How can you think, logically,
that eating a dead animal can
make you healthy, or
to prolong your life,
or to make you beautiful,
or to give you energy?
How can you think?
I don't understand
people's logic for this.
"Oh, I've got to
have meat, protein.
It's so high in protein."
Yeah, but the body is
paying such a high price
by you eating this flesh.
Uric acid, cholesterol, worms,
fish, too, chicken and turkey.
They're all the
same stuff, right?
And also when the
animal is slaughtered,
you know that adrenaline fear
that goes through the animal?
You don't think
that the animal is
knowing when it's gonna get
killed in the butcher house?
It knows for sure,
I am positive.
And when you eat it, you
don't get just the cholesterol
that clogs your arteries,
the uric acid, the fat,
the dead blood.
And sometimes meat is
sold, and they color it,
and they put nitrates in it
to look like fresh pink meat.
It should be gray, if they
didn't do the preservatives
and everything else.
But the adrenaline
poisoning and all that crap
you're taking in there
just to get some protein?
When you can go to
the plant world?
Raw nuts, avocados,
grain, sprouted grains?
>> I truly believe that it's not
a natural human instinct to eat
dead flesh.
It is a learned experience.
If you were on a
desert island and you
hadn't eaten in weeks
and weeks and weeks,
and there was a dead cow
floated up on the island
and you had a bushel
of apples, where
do you think your
instincts would take you?
If we see a dying,
sick animal, it
isn't our response to
pounce on it and eat it.
It's to maybe take it to
a vet, at the simple worst
to step over it.
But it isn't to pounce
on it and eat it.
My carnivorous dog, it
is his natural instinct
to eat dead flesh.
So I think this myth
that we live with,
that we need protein
for strong bones
and to build teeth and hair,
it's exactly what it is.
And we've bought into it.
Teachers in school
get information
from the big companies to
teach you what you should eat,
that you need the food pyramid.
Fortunately, to a degree,
they are expanding this.
They are adding more and
more fruits and vegetables,
because people are realizing
that they feel better.
Even the American
Cancer Society says
that you shouldn't be
eating so much red meat.
>> Why kill an animal
so I can enjoy my meal?
I think it's like
a murderous thing.
I mean, if I didn't pay the
butcher to buy a piece of steak
or a piece of chicken or turkey,
if I didn't pay that money
to get that food
in the first place,
there wouldn't be the
demand on the butcher
to kill that animal.
So we have to take
personal responsibility.
>> We've turned our
back on local produce,
and we've turned our back on
local farmers and local people,
who use the community and
rely on the community to make
a living, because of the
convenience of a chain store.
We go to those
places just because I
can take care of all my
shopping needs in one place.
My brother, who is the
biggest, cheapest human being
on the face of the Earth, and
I love him more than anybody,
he'll go to seven
stores when he shops,
just because he will go wherever
he can get the best deal.
And he'll go to one place,
and it's like, well,
why would I buy
tangerines there?
Because over here,
you know what, they're
a nickel cheaper a pound.
And he'll go to
all these places.
And especially
during the summer,
he'll go to the farmer's market
and just buy those things
that he could buy at a grocery
store from the local farmers,
because he knows that he's
supporting his local economy.
He's supporting
people whose money
is gonna go right back
into his own economy.
And for me, I think that's the
biggest thing that we should
start to look at, things
that are grown naturally,
things that are grown
in your backyard.
I think we've become so
distanced from our food
that we've lost sight
of what real food is.
>> But I'll never
forget an incident.
I was at a party
that I had catered,
and they asked me to
speak a little bit
about my food, which was a raw
food diet that I had catered.
And there were a bunch
of doctors there,
and they had brought
in two nutritionists
to speak about health.
And one of the biggest
travesties was,
someone asked one of
the nutritionists,
is there a difference between
organic and non-organic?
And the nutritionist
says, governments studies
have shown that
there is absolutely
no difference between
organic and non-organic.
I mean, how can you say this?
Everybody knows now there's a--
you can go to a farmer's market
and pick up a strawberry
and even taste a difference.
You can see a difference.
But government
controlled licensing says
that there is no difference.
And most of the
people, because of all
of the toxicity in their
bodies, they're asleep.
They don't stop and think
that this doesn't compute,
that this doesn't make sense.
So what I say is,
the best thing to do
is arm yourself with
as much education
as you can on every
chance that you can,
because we spend a lot
of time on our education,
and to learn about our cars,
to learn about our occupations,
but what about this
most magnificent mission
you'll ever be given?
Spend your time educating
yourself about the body.
How many people knew
the stomach was just
a tiny little snack in there?
We think of it as
this whole area
to fill up three,
four times a day.
If we educate ourselves and
then we detox and cleanse,
because that detoxing
and cleansing,
I'll come back to that, it's
these layers of toxicity
that are closing our minds,
that are putting us to sleep,
so that we don't look at the
reality of what's being said.
So we just take on
this information, yeah,
we sleepwalk through life.
And then as we get sick,
we sleepwalk even further.
I'm saying, wake up.
>> There was a cook, and I
think it was Jamie Oliver.
I can remember who
it was, but I'm
thinking it was Jamie Oliver in
the UK, went into a classroom
with kids and blindfolded them.
And he says, I'm gonna have
you guys smell some things.
Tell me what they are.
So he blindfolds the kids,
and the one kid smells it
and he goes, it's hand soap.
He goes, it's hand soap.
It's what you wash
your hands with.
And the other kid
goes, no, no, no, no.
It's dishwashing liquid.
It's what you put in the
dishwasher to wash your dishes.
And they take the blindfold off,
and the kids are sitting there,
staring at a lemon.
So this is what we associate
these things with now,
these odors, these things
that are food and products
are now byproducts.
And it starts in the home.
It starts with parents.
It starts with what you
pass down to your kids.
I grew up in a house where
my parents, my mother
cooked dinner every single day.
There was not a
day-- my mother, it
wasn't like she was
a stay at home mom.
She worked all day,
and she came home
and she cooked dinner,
because it was important.
It was important to
build this ritual
of the family sitting down
and having a meal together.
And I think it's
one of those things
that is so important for
families to understand,
especially kids
to see, that food
matters, to understand
where food comes from.
We had a garden in our
backyard every summer.
For as long as I can
remember, as a little kid,
I'd be out there,
playing in the dirt,
pulling carrots out of the
ground and washing them off,
and eating them fresh
out of the ground.
Celery, cucumbers, tomatoes,
green beans, cabbage, lettuce.
We grew everything.
We grew so much food.
And then we would can it
and have it in the winter.
I had such a great relationship
with food growing up.
And I think that
that's completely
distanced from everyone.
And people say, well,
we don't have time,
or we don't have money, or
it's just not that important.
And I think that
there's a backlash now.
I mean, I think there
is a turn of the tide,
where people are realizing,
you know what, it is important,
and we are missing this
element of our lives.
And hopefully, it
will come back.
>> Between the food industry,
and the drug industry,
and the medical industry,
they're very successful.
They're spending
their money wisely,
and they're businesses out
to sell their products,
and they're winning over
the minds of Americans
to think that we're
actually doing better
by spending all this money
on health care and drugs.
And in reality, even
the science the doctors
are learning in the medical
journals is not accurate.
That's even biased
in favor of drugs,
because the science is produced
and written and drawn up
by the money, by the people
who are selling the drugs.
So I think it's a difficult
thing we're going through,
and I think that we're coming
to a certain crisis in America,
because health care
costs have skyrocketed
to the degree that's businesses
can't function anymore.
And drugs are getting
more expensive,
and we're not
seeing the benefits.
We're not seeing it.
We're spending more and
more money on health care,
but we're not seeing a
healthy population for it.
So people are starting
to smarten up.
They're starting
to say, well, maybe
this is all it's
cracked up to be,
just taking more and more drugs.
Maybe drugs are not the answer.
I think the way it's
coming around now
is, because I think they've
pushed the economic envelope
almost too far,
and now people are
gonna start looking for other
means of reducing health care
costs.
And that's where good
nutrition and proper lifestyle,
and perhaps even cleaning
up the environment
might be beneficial
for health costs.
There might be a another
economic factor fighting
against this idea the
drugging of America
is the answer to
our health problems.
There might be another
factor coming, too.
And they might be
coming to a conflict.
And we might see more effort,
more winning of people
with nutrition, and
environmental concerns,
and people actually looking to
remove the cause of disease,
instead of just treating
people after they
fall off the cliff
and land at the bottom
and smash up their bodies.
>> We cannot get
around the inevitable.
We have to actually look
it right in the face.
And looking that
right in the face
means we have to face the way
that our whole civilization is
utilizing food and our
whole relationship to food.
Ultimately, the relationship
that we have with food
is a spiritual one.
And our relationship to
food right now is spiritual.
It's just not very
much spirit in it.
It's just how much is there?
And right now, we're at like
1%, where it could be 100%.
All ancient cultures, especially
the great Incan civilizations,
Chinese civilizations, all
had a very deep correlation
with agriculture, spirituality,
health, longevity, and beauty.
These were all tied together.
For whatever reason,
in our culture,
it's all been broken apart.
And we have to look
at that directly,
in order to get to the
bottom of this whole thing.
>> We live in a culture which
tells us that the Earth belongs
to us.
And when ownership is
implied, and then the idea
that we could do
whatever we want
and not have to even consider
how would our actions
impact the others, whether they
be other animals, other plants,
the water, the soil, the air.
At first, it seems like
this is a great privilege.
Oh, the Earth belongs to me.
It is mine.
But ultimately, it
leads, of course,
to degradation of human
beings and the earth,
as we're seeing more and more
at this time of global crisis.
I think we could all agree
that we're at a global crisis.
And I think there are
perhaps three things that
could be helpful in
considering this global crisis.
Number one, there
is a global crisis.
Number two, we're causing it.
We meaning human beings.
And number three
could be, most of us
don't have a clue about
number one or number two.
And the situation that we
are finding ourselves in,
and the rise of obesity,
and diabetes, and cancer,
and depression, and
pharmaceutical drug use,
and recreational
debilitating drug
use, and TV, which is another
form of debilitating drug use,
you can look at it as we're
a culture of low self-esteem.
The average person in our
culture has low self-esteem.
That is really the disease
we're talking about,
the disease of low self-esteem.
>> Where this all begins
is in our own heart.
In sports, we used to say,
does that team have heart?
Are we playing against
a team that has heart?
Why don't we say, are we playing
against a team that has mind?
Right?
When we used to play
tennis, does that person
have the heart to win?
The heart is where your soul is.
That's where you have
that ability to say,
I am going for it.
I am going to win
no matter what.
I'm going to make it
happen, no matter what.
And in fact, it's
not a win-loss thing.
It's not like if you
win, someone else loses.
It's a win-win thing.
If you win, everybody else wins.
If you win, the
organic farmer wins.
If you win, the organic
health food store wins.
If you win, you win.
You get all the health
benefits, and your family wins.
If you win, all the
people around you,
they win, all your friends.
This is ultimately the
greatest win-win-win strategy
ever, is deciding inside
ourselves that we're
worth it and we can do it.
>> Nobody wants to
give up choices.
Nobody wants to
give up convenience.
So making convenient, knowing
where you can get food
that you enjoy
like this, knowing
how to have things that are
on the run available to you,
so you don't get to
that threshold, where
I gotta have something
right now, that's how
you get yourself where
you have more balance.
In the moment, it all comes
down to what do you value most?
I always say to people, nothing
tastes as good as fit feels,
as energetic feels.
And if you get
associated with that,
then you start
making new choices.
>> How do we make that change?
It's actually total easy.
It starts right
in your backyard.
It starts on your porch.
It starts with
your house plants.
It gets back to loving
plants, loving the soil,
loving the earth,
giving back something
instead of just taking away.
Ultimately, it starts at home.
>> When you begin to eat in
a way which connects you more
to the earth and
to your own self,
which a raw food
vegan diet does,
you actually feel the effects
of it right away in a positive
way.
You feel more alive.
You feel more grateful.
You begin to wake up
to your own confidence,
your own at-easeness.
>> What could we eat that
would cause the least harm
to the Earth and
all earthly beings?
That's our main criteria.
Not what would make
me most healthy,
not even what tastes best.
All those are secondary
considerations.
Our main consideration
is not harming others.
And so part of that
is not overconsuming.
No matter what, whether you're
consuming lettuce beings
or chicken beings, less is best.
>> When you begin to
be more connected,
then you begin to feel that
what you do actually matters,
not only to your own health and
well-being but to the greater
world around you.
>> In the end, it's not
just about raw food or about
biodiesel.
It's about a
sustainable lifestyle.
It's about waking up and
saying, hey, does this work
or does it not work?
It's not about good or bad.
It's what works and
what doesn't work.
And the more that we do that,
the more everyone does that,
it's gonna be a better world.
It's gonna be a happier world.
And we're gonna be leaving a
much better world to our kids.
>> There's a train going a
million miles an hour towards
death, pain, fire, destruction,
famine, greed, hate.
And there's also another
train that you can get on.
It's going another direction,
towards love, laughter,
happiness, joy, growth,
beauty, longevity.
It's a choice.
And that choice is
always available.
You choose.